
LAWIS, July '96         p. 1


WOMEN IN SCIENCE NEWSLETTER

 Karen Schultz Paige, PRESIDENT         July 1996


From the President

Summer is a slower time for the Northern Chapter and we have fewer meetings
and activities than usual. We started the spring with an interesting talk
on fossils by Maureen Hudson. Everyone who attended enjoyed learning about
fossils and trying out their new knowledge on the fossil hunting expedition
she lead us on the next day. Our annual summer picnic in June was great
fun. This year we at last had the picnic on a day without rain! The turnout
was great and I met lots of interesting women.

We are planning more activities for later in the year. We have the annual
meeting for our local chapter coming up in September. This event will give
us a chance to get together, meet new members, and arrange car pools to the
State Annual meeting in Santa Fe in October. I am looking forward to seeing
everyone then!

Karen Schultz Paige
vvvvv

News from the State Board

The State Board of Directors for NMNWSE recently held their June meeting.
Northern Chapter member Ellen Overton recently resigned from her position
as secretary because she was moving out of state. The State Board has
requested that the Northern chapter fill this position. The term of this
position ends this October. The position of secretary will then be open for
nominees for the next term. The position of vice-president, as well as the
election chair and other positions will also need to be filled. Northern
chapter members interested in positions on the State board are encouraged
to contact Kelli Livermore of the central chapter as soon as possible to
make the upcoming ballot.

Karen Schultz Paige
vvvvv

CONGRATULATIONS!!

The Northern chapter is proud to recognize Denise George on her recent
award for distinguished service to women. The New Mexico division of AAUW
(American Assn. of University Women) awarded Denise the 1996 Grace Barker
Wilson Award in recognition of her commitment to programs advancing the
education, equity, or self-esteem of women and girls. Denise has been
involved with programs such as Careers and Curiosity, and Expanding Your
Horizons for many years. We hope that she will continue her work in this
area. Congratulations, Denise!

Karen Schultz Paige
vvvvv
In Memory

I am sorry to report the death of long-time LAWIS member Georgia Fritz.
Georgia died while hiking with a group in the Santa Fe National Forest.
Georgia Fritz was one of the founding members of LAWIS and was instrumental
in setting up the Reentry program, that allowed a number of our members to
pursue technical careers. Throughout her career, she was actively involved
with issues concerning women in science. Georgia was in the process of
preparing a presentation on women in the Manhattan Project for this year's
NMNWSE Annual Meeting. We will miss her contributions to this group but
will proudly continue the work that she started.
Karen Schultz Paige

vvvvv

LAWIS Annual Picnic



This is a photograph from our annual picnic.  The picnic was held in the
afternoon of Thursday, June 20.  It was a spectacular day for a picnic.
The weather cooperated in giving us a sunny warm afternoon.

We expected eighty-two people for this event, and the attendance was very
good.  About sixty people, a handful of children, and a couple of dogs came
to enjoy hamburgers, hotdogs, and the trimmings.

Besides the gourmet treats, many members were on hand to answer questions
about WIS. Deborah, Membership Chair for LAWIS, met each picnic goer to
give a name tag, hand out a brochure, and make everyone feel very welcome.

Ginger Young
        Annual Picnic Committee Chair

vvvvv

NMNWSE Annual Meeting and Symposium

It is time again for NMNWSE's Annual Meeting and Symposium. The Northern
Chapter (that's us) is planning it this year. This year's conference will
be held October 18 - 20th at the Fort Marcy Compound in Santa Fe. Put it on
your calender and look for the Call for Papers and the Registration form in
July's State Newsletter. This is a great opportunity for you to give a
short talk (20 minutes) on what you do at work or maybe a hobby of yours.
It's great practice and lots of fun. This is also a great chance to meet
other women from around the state and make some great friends! Hope to see
you there.

Deborah Kubicek
'96 NMNWSE Annual Meeting Committee Chair

vvvvv

Report of Women's Diversity Working Group Representative

I'm privileged to have been serving on LANL's Women's Diversity Working
Group since February, 1996.  I'm a member of this group because of an
e-mail sent out by Wendee Brunish last winter, urging WIS members to apply
to this newly-created (resurrected?) volunteer group.  I did, and with
Wendee's sponsorship, was selected.

The purpose of the Women's Diversity Working Group is to provide
information, assistance, and advice to the Diversity Office Director on
issues associated with the underutilization of women managers, women in
technical positions, and other women employees.  Membership of the Working
Group is drawn from a wide number of Laboratory divisions/ programs and
from all job classifications.  The Diversity Office has coordinating
responsibility and provides staff support for the Working Group as
resources are available.  Current members of the WDWG are Diane Albert,
MST-6; Linda Anderman, CIO; Sandi Borrego, HR Staffing; Renita Cook,
ESA-WMM; Micheline Devaurs, EM/WM; D. Gail Diedrich, DSTBP; Janie Enter,
CST-7; Carla Jacquez, ESH-18; DeAnna Kruse, IPO; Alice Naranjo, ESH-OI;
Mary Neu, CST-11; Amy Regan, AOT-5; Kathleen Romero, MST-5; and Laura Worl,
NMT-6.

The Working Group is addressing diversity issues, which will include, but
are not limited to: recruitment, mentoring, cross-training or retraining,
professional issues, professional educational development, Women's History
Month activities (which take place in March of each year), and
glass-ceiling issues.  As a champion of the Laboratory's affirmative action
program, the Diversity Office views the formation of the Women's Working
Group as an excellent opportunity to increase communication on systemic
issues that impact the Laboratory's diversity and affirmative action
objectives, as well as an avenue to make recommendations for actions to be
taken.  Members will serve staggered two-year terms.  The Working Group
meets semi-monthly.

I welcome any input, constructive criticisms, questions, or suggestions
from WIS members.  My phone number is 5-2266 and my e-mail is
dalbert@lanl.gov.
Diane Albert
Women's Diversity Group Representative

vvvvv

Editor's Note

We welcome your contributions to the newsletter.  Please send news,
articles, editorials,  suggestions, etc. by mail, fax or E-mail to:

Joyce Guzik
XTA  MS B220
Los Alamos National Laboratory
Los Alamos, NM  87545

Fax:  (505) 665-2227
E-mail:  joy@LANL.GOV
